>>Hello, welcome; I'm Perry Kietreiber usually called Perry
the Cynic and this is if I recall something like,
"Sign your applications to make the world
a better place" and oh a very long title
but what it really is about is code signing.
( Pause )
Yea, that's me.
So what am I going to tell you?
What code signing is, how we're using it in Leopard and what
you need to get your application signed and well how to stay
out of trouble while you get your application signed.
Those of you who've been here last year, this is
about the same thing and you'll definitely notice
that I'm telling you the same thing again
because the technology itself hasn't changed;
the only difference is that it's really here; so what
we promised we pretty much did and a little bit more.
So what is code signing?
It's actually about you; it's about the developer;
you get something that you haven't had before.
You get to define an identity for your code; you get to
give it a real identity and the system from that point
on forward takes care of finding out if somebody mucked with
your program, changed it and conversely if there's a change
that happens to your program that you meant to happen
because you shipped a software update the system
is smart enough to realize that that's okay.
Once you got your code off on the user system there is
functionality for checking the stuff right there on disk
to see if its changed, it its still
intact, if it's really yours
and more importantly running code once your application
has launched the system can check that running code
and see if it's still what you shipped or if there
was a change...and following the old tradition,
so what doesn't it do other than save
the universe just like other technologies
in the security arena that the authorization subsystem.
It doesn't actually give you any privileges
by itself that you don't already have;
so just because your application is signed doesn't mean
that it suddenly gets root access or get to do all kinds
of special things although there
are system components that will look
at your code signature to decide
whether to let you have stuff.
Code signing is not about your program having bugs or
not; if you write a buggy application and you sign it,
it will be a signed buggy application and it'll
have your name on it saying, "We made this."
The bug will still be there and it
can still erase the users hard drive
if that's your bug; I recommend against it personally.
The other thing that code signing doesn't protect the
user from is to trust somebody they shouldn't be trusting
because this is all about whether
the user trusts the developer.
If a user says, "I trust Mr. Hackers mail application"
and Mr. Hackers mail application (inaudible) up all
of the passwords and e-mail addresses and mails them to
him code signing says, "Okay, you said you wanted to."
So code signing itself does not decide for the user who
to trust; it just lets the user express who to trust
and who not to trust and they always ask me
to say this is not a copy protection facility
so if you're making copy protection software
this is not here to put you out of business.
It does help you figure out whether somebody mucked with
your program; so whether you are doing copy protection
or not that it will do for you but it doesn't do anything
about somebody copying a program to another system
and running it there; that's not its job.
So, last year I told we were just starting to put
this into Leopard; well we have put it into Leopard
and it's actually in a number of places now.
The Keychain subsystem uses code signing to identify
clients so every time you make a Keychain call and you say,
"I want this password because I'm me" code signatures
will get checked and you will have extra problems
if your signature isn't there or isn't intact.
Anytime the security server daemon deals
with a client and that includes you
if you're making authorization calls it will use code
signing to determine who you are, what your name is,
what your identity is; again there's this
identity thing but you're putting on your code.
If the administrator turns on parental
controls code signing will be used
to determine whether a particular application that's on a
list of allowed things to run really is what he claims to be
so no more just mucking with info P lists to pretend
that Walter Farcraft really is mail dot application.
There is a new feature in Leopard called the automatic
firewall, you may have heard of it as the outgoing firewall
or application firewall; that uses code signing in a limited
fashion to decide whether to put up a big dialog saying,
"Do you really want that application: or if you're
validly signed it won't; it'll just go, Oh, okay,
you may and those of you who call an obscure system called
call task for PID you pretty much need to be code signed
in order to make that call in Leopard unless you want to
rely on a legacy facility and nobody here wants to rely
on a legacy facility, right, good; so all of that is yours
if you sign your code; so you want to sign your code.
I'll tell you that 3 times and then another 3
times because you really want to sign your code.
No excuses this time.
Let me give you sort of the brief flow of
data for how this code signing thing works.
The vendor on the left that's you; you build your program
like you always do; you take your code, your info P list,
your resources, whatever else goes in there and you assemble
it in Xcode or with meg files, whichever way you want
and the extra step is that you take a code signing identity
which is one of those script-o-graphic identity things
and it gets stored in Keychains because
this is Mac OS X and you feed it
into a command line call sign that's one of those
command line commands and out pops the modified version
of your signed code that actually
has a signature embedded in it.
What it will actually do is modify it in
place by just sticking the signature in.
You take that signed code instead of the original
and you ship it anyway you want; you know,
we don't care how you do that, Apple installer, third
party installer, Dragon install, you know Magical network,
transfer mechanisms, we don't care as
long as the thing on the user system
when you're all done is exactly the signed code
that you started with and we really pretty much mean
byte for byte the same application and the user runs it and
through the miracle of code signing if anybody is interested
in the identity of that running code they call our
verification API and the system basically says,
"Yea that's it or No that's not it and
that's why" and that's all there is;
it's really simple unless you have to implement it.
( Laughter )
Okay, so as I said, we have the stuff that's sitting on
disk, that's what you're signing, you know, your application
or your tool or whatever that code is of yours; that's what
carries the signature once you sign it; that's what you ship
and because that is what we're protecting against
modification it better be immutable and that's another one
of those, "I'll tell you 3 times things."
You will get in trouble if you change your code after it's
signed and it increasingly doesn't matter which part of it;
obviously the code itself, you know, the Mach-O,
instructions but now it also means the info P list
because it describes to the system things about
your code and I'm also talking about your resources.
If you have a habit of mucking with the resources
in your programs after they've been installed,
listen up, I'll tell him what he tells later.
Obviously code is, you know, tools, Mach-0 binaries,
bundles with Mach-0 binaries but code in the sense
of code signing also includes a bit more surprising
things like libraries and frameworks and plug ins
and potentially also scripts, you know, Ruby scripts,
Perl scripts, whatever; in principle scripts are code
and code signing understands that scripts are code and in
fact code signings notion of what is code is extensible;
so over time more things will become recognized
as code and become signed and verified as code.
( Pause )
Now code signings primary interest isn't
actually on this stuff sitting on disk;
as long as it sits on disk it's harmless; once
it's running it's dangerous and once its running
and you know make system calls and RPC calls and ask
for all kinds of stuff like your Keychain password
for your mail account then it's dangerous.
So code signing is primarily focused from a verification
point of view; it's actually on running code.
This is sort of an important point.
You can run verifications on stuff on disk and it'll work
and it'll give you useful information but that's almost sort
of a side effect of what this is really about.
At runtime the system keeps essentially a bit with
every running process; we call it the valid bit
and it basically says, "As far as
we know so far this thing is okay."
There are things that flip this validate off,
basically make the identity of this code invalid
and once it's off it will never come back on; it's a
sticky bit; so when something bad happens to your program
and it loses it's identity the valid bit goes off;
it's invalid until it dies; if you re-launch it,
it starts valid again until it does that bad
thing again that made it lose it's validity
and then there's additional stuff that the system
also keeps, like there is a bit called KILL bit
which basically says, "If I ever
lose my identity just shoot me."
( Laughter )
Yea, that's exactly it.
That is sticky too; once you set it, it
won't ever clear again for that process.
That's a useful combination because
if you ever see a process that's valid
and has the KILL bit set you know it will always be valid
because if it ever loses it's validity it'll
be dead; so as long as it's alive it's valid.
Cool feature.
There's another one called HARD that is
occasionally useful; it basically means "Please
if I ever have a choice I'd rather not get my resources
than lose my identity because my resources are bad."
It's sometimes useful, not terribly.
So, I said this is really about running code
and well there's a lot more stuff executing
in the system than just processes.
I mean, every time you run a script;
I mean you run, I don't know,
Ruby but what you're really running it the Ruby script.
Ruby the program is just there because
it's necessary to help running the script.
If you're running a PowerPC binary on an Intel machine it's
actually the Rosetta system that's executing the program
in very magic and highly patented ways.
So from the kernels point of view it's dealing with
this thing called translate which is part of Rosetta
but from you point of view, from the user's
point of view they don't want to know.
If you've played with the earlier version of the beta once
in a while programs would pop up these odd dialogs that say,
"Translate wants access to your Keychain password."
Well, that's actually Rosetta because you were
running a PowerPC binary and at that point
in time things haven't been hooked up yet, now they
are; so welcome to the beta where this all works.
So when you were looking at running code things are a lot
more complicated than just processes and just, you know,
files on disk and the way code signing deals with that
and this is the really, really high level explanation,
is code signing understands that code is run by other
code; processes are run by the kernel and scripts are run
by the script interpreter and PowerPC binaries are
run by this Rosetta machinery and hey, CFM binaries,
yes we still support them, are run by
this launch CFM app thing and so on.
To which if you're on Intel as the good gentleman in
the front row says, "Yea; so these mechanisms stack;
you can actually build this theoretically very long chain of
host codes that on guest codes that are in turn host codes
and we call that the hosting chain;
so even in a general situation you end
up with this fairly complicated
stack relationship of running codes,
managing other running codes and it works; it really does.
So here's a couple of graphical depictions.
This is the trivial and obvious case where the kernel
is running a process that it fetched from the disk.
( Pause )
Here is one that is actually from real life...that had the
kernel using Rosetta to run a PowerPC binary that happens
to be the launch CFM application helper which actually
manages to run an old CFM program like Microsoft Word,
until they finally come out with the new version.
So this ones real; that happens
today if you want to run Word
or anything else that's a CFM app on your Intel machine.
Here's a hypothetical one where...yep, where you have
Ruby the interpreter...okay somebody messed this slide up.
I apologize sincerely.
I hope it wasn't me; oh, anyway...imagine Ruby running
a Ruby script, that's hypothetical because at this point
in time we haven't hooked up the API calls in the
Ruby interpreter; eventually we will or you know,
it's something like 5 lines of C code; it's really
pretty easy; it just requires that...whoever manages
that particular program knows where the
paths are coming from and when things happen.
Okay, so here's sort of a bonus that comes along with code
signing; it's there because code signing uses it internally.
There is this requirement language; it's sort of this
small interpreted programming language that is solely there
so you can express in a formal way
constraints or restrictions on pieces of code.
That's there and it's used internally in code signing and
if you're using the verification APIs you can write one
of those requirements and pass them in and
say, "This is code, satisfy this requirement."
That's all I'm going to tell you about it
because unfortunately that's not in API
and Leopard so consider yourself tantalized.
( Laughter )
When your signing code you use a cryptographic
signing identity and I've been warned
because we've got 2 identity words in here;
we have the identity that you assign your code
which is essentially a name you're giving to you code
and then you put your stamp on and say, "We made this
and therefore you can believe us" and then there is
this cryptographic identities which are, you know,
cryptographic keys and digital certificates;
those you use to actually find your code.
So these are the signing identities that you use to sign.
We using an industry standard format; there're signed
X5 certificates if you happen to know what that is
and it's using the standard code signing extension
that's been in that RFC for pretty much forever;
you can get those by buying them from
commercial certificate authorities,
that's perfectly fine; that has certain advantages.
You can make your own; Keychain access the
utility application has a little helper built
in called the certificate assistant and as of, you know,
a couple of betas ago it can make you a
code signing certificate fairly painlessly.
( Laughter )
Hey, nothings free...and if you happen to have a
Microsoft style authentic code certificate or identity
that you're using for code signing on that operating system
that shall not be named they will work because, you know,
at least as far as we know they're
following the standard and so do we.
Signing identities are stored in Keychains, you don't
get a choice here; so if somebody hands it to you
in a different format you will have
to import it into your Keychain
but then everybody has a Keychain whether you
want it or not so you might as well use it.
Speaking of Keychains...the access control mechanism
that Keychain items have a major improvement
based on code signing; you've always been able to say
that say this mail password only can be accessed by mail
dot application but not anybody else except, you know,
it pops up a dialog and asks you whether you
want to; anyway if it's not pre-approved.
That used to be an okay mechanism based on essentially
what bytes are in the executable but now its based
on the code signing identity of programs that are
signed and that's a heck of a lot more flexible
because among other things it automatically figures out
whether the new version of your program is an update
to an old version; so certain dialogs
that I'm sure you've all come
to love will just not happen if
your application is properly signed.
So there's another reason, sign
your applications, thank you.
If you've already shipped an application in Tiger obviously
it's not going to be signed and people have used it
and made Keychain items that are accessible to that
application; if you ship and update of that application
in Leopard that is signed the system actually
has an upgrade path that it takes automatically
where it basically edits  ccess control list of the agent
to put a method of extra information in so it understands
that the signed version of your program
is a continuation of the unsigned version;
so you will in most circumstances see one last one of those
dialogs that basically says, "This is really an upgrade
to the previous one" and then it'll shut up as long as
you don't keep flipping back and forth between Leopard
and Tiger where of course Tiger doesn't understand any of
this and you know, introduces new things that Leopard needs
to think about; so if your users make a transition
strictly from Tiger to Leopard and then stay there
after that last instance of those
dialogs things will just shut up.
If you use the SecAccess
or SecTrusted application APIs
to make custom access control list the really good news
is that those APIs are still there and they're unchanged
and they still work and your code is going to continue
to work without you having to make any changes to it
and it'll use code signing if your application is signed.
So you'll get all of the extra super benefits without
having to change any codes; we're rather proud of that one.
Gee, time for a demo. Okay I hope
nobody is afraid of command line commands.
I made this really small test program called CS Test
for code signing testing and let's just take a look
at what happens with unsigned programs;
one of the few things CS Test knows how
to do is it can make a Keychain item and having
made the Keychain item it can retrieve it again;
since it made the item it has free
access to the item, that's fine;
now if you've ever made Keychain calls you know
what happens if you make a change to your program.
Let's say...we make a new version of this with a trivial
change in it...and well the system doesn't really know
that that new CS Test is a genuine approved by you the
developer real new version of CS Test so you get this dialog
that basically says, "Hey user I can't figure this out.
Is this the same kind of CS Test that you had before"
and people say always allow and then you get access
to your Keychain item again until you change it.
People hate those dialogs; you hate those dialogs, admit it.
Okay so this is a command called code sign
in user bin; it's a command line command,
sorry about that, and you can tell it to sign say CS Test.
The signing identity is in the Keychain so we
have to unlock it and...now CS Test is signed.
Dash V for verify and you know dash V for give me more
verbose information; it's a classic Unix thing again
if you're wondering there's a man page, go read it;
it's actually your best preference to the command.
Okay...so CS Test, still in the same program of course,
this was the automatic upgrade I was talking about;
if this was your signing identity you'd get a confirmation
dialog because Apple gets certain privileges here.
So, let's try this again.
You know, management comes to you and
says, "You shall put a strict disclaimer
into our program because our lawyers are sorely afraid."
So CS Test of course since we just, we built it, isn't
signed so we need to sign it again...and now...it's signed.
Think about what we just did.
If this is you, what you just did.
You basically said, "This is my
program; it's called CS Test and I vouch
with my digital identity that I really made this."
This is the same statement you
made about the previous version.
So rather than the system having to
think about what bytes are in the file
and what does this all mean now the system can look at
this and go, "Oh, the developer who made the original said
that this is the same program; so no problem, he said so.
I mean if you can't trust the developer about
the identity of his program who can you trust?"
So if we run that thing again, no dialogs
because everybody knows what's going on.
So...
( Applause )
Well, thank you.
In a sense this is sort of the crust of the matter,
you know, it's the absence of dialog isn't just
that we got tired of putting dialogs in
everybody's face and now we're shutting up,
it's that we don't need the dialogs anymore because
now the system actually knows what's going on;
that's the big change.
Okay, well for those of you who would never be caught dead
with a command line tool I made a
version of CS Test that's an application.
It basically does the same thing; it just checks itself
so it can report on what's going on and right now
since we just made it, it says that
it's not signed; so let's sign it.
( Pause )
You'll notice we're signing a bundle here and the signing
mechanism understands what it means to sign a bundle
so when we run the program now it's valid and
particularly here the dynamic validity of the program is
on because we haven't done anything to invalidate
it; so let's ask CS Test to access that test item;
CS the application is a different program from CS
Test the command line tool so you'll get this dialog
as you should because, Hey it's a new program that
wants access to the Keychain items so let's say okay
and at this point...yep, now both of
them have access to the Keychain item.
Now let's turn the dynamic validity of this
thing off; the code is still statically valid;
the thing on disk is just fine but something happened to
this running program and if it's now trying to get access
to this Keychain item you're getting a
new dialog that basically says, "You know,
something is not right with that program as it's running
here; you know, something changed it and do you still want
to allow access because the pre-approved
entry doesn't apply anymore?"
You also won't be able to say all was allowed because
at this point it's quite unclear what the identity
of this program would be since something has mucked with it.
You can still allow on a one time basis, the user can, and
if you quit it and re-launch it since there's nothing wrong
with the version on disk it gets
access to the item just fine.
So, you may wonder what happens if
we make a change to the program.
I have a little hacking program that let's us
change code but I'm not going to daemonstrate that;
let's just crawl in here...and...oh, I don't know, change
the info P list; that's how in Tiger the smart kids get
around parental controls because parental controls
just looks at the CF bundle identifier and what ever
that says it believes so if you take Walter Farcraft
and you say it's com dot Apple dot
mail...let's try that...see, easy change.
Oh, wait, the code signing system actually looks at the
info P list; it basically thinks of it as an extension
of the code and it notices that that file has been modified;
so at this point this time the dynamic validity
hasn't been affected but the thing on disk is wrong.
In that effect it's pretty much the
same...you can't get at the Keychain item.
If you undo the change since, you
know, you're back petting the thing
on disk okay remember how I told you it doesn't matter
how you ship your code, how you install your code;
all that matters is what's there on disk when the
thing is running and if it's intact we're fine.
Same thing happens to resources; there isn't much resources
in this program of course but let's just add a new resource.
( Pause )
Oh, come on, do what I mean.
And the system is looking at the resources too; when you
sign a program with, that is a bundle that has resources,
this has actually built something called a resource
directory that collects information about all
of these resource files and builds little cryptographic
signatures for each of them; so not only does it tell
if a file has been modified it can also
tell where the files got edited or removed.
So in this case we added a resource that wasn't
there; just think about it, it could have been a nib
or it could have been something that changes the
behavior of the program and well we figured it out
and again if you remove this you're back into the good,
the valid state of things and you know, we're back.
( Pause )
Let's see, alright just as a small bonus
daemonstration, one of the other things that CS Test,
the command line tool can do is it can
actually simulate being a code host.
I mean, not simulate, it can be a code host.
I've got these little scripts called A and B
just to show you what it is; it's a text file;
it's just a simple text file; there's nothing executable
about it per say but you can teach CS Test to be a code host
for say A...and access a Keychain
item and what we get is this.
What happened here is that CS Test called an API that
said, "Hey I'm code host and I'm now acting on behalf
of this A dot CS Test file over there" and the system said,
"Okay" and then when CS Test the program
made the Keychain call the system said,
"Yea but you're not really you;
you're acting on behalf of this A."
The security daemon got told that the identity of the
requester isn't CS Test, it's A and so the security dialog
that you're getting is about A dot CS Test; even
though CS Test the tool has pre-approved access
to the Keychain item it doesn't apply here because it's
not CS Test making the request; it's A making the request.
So the code signing system in (inaudible) can
deal with things that aren't on process boundaries
that aren't really processes, they are something else.
You know, this could be your Ruby script; this will in fact
your program if it's a PowerPC version running on Intel
with CSF's role being played by Rosetta and there we are.
Okay...end of demo.
( Applause )
There is a lot more to this but this is a one hour session
and I'm also somewhat constrained by the fact that most
of the APIs aren't going to be APIs in Leopard.
So primarily what you get to do this time
around is sign your code and watch the show.
And now the second part of the presentation; I've tried to
sort of explain to you in first part what this is all about
and now I'll talk about what it all means to you.
This is one slide if you've been here last
year that you looked at and basically it says,
"What should you be doing a year ago
and well get ready because it's coming."
Alright it's a year later it's here, hope you're ready.
If you're not, if you just thought, "You know
they always talk about this and I'll deal with it
when it's really here;" it's really here so what do you do.
There's a set of things you have to do once, just
to set yourself up for that code signing gig.
You have to figure out who in your outfit,
in your company gets to do the signing.
If you're a garage shop; if it's just you
and a friend, not a problem, it's you.
You know who you are, you trust yourself, cool.
If you're a large company and you have a legal
department or an IT department you want to start talking
to those folks now; particularly the legal departments
because they usually take months to get back to you.
The question is, "Who in your company has the authority
to sign your code" because when they put their signature
on the code they're speaking for your company as a whole.
They say, "We, Adobe; we Microsoft; we Joe's Garage Shop,
say that this is our code and we're
proud to call it our code."
So you don't want to put that sign on some stupid little
hack that somebody in your company cooked up in a corner
and you definitely don't want to put it on something
that somebody else made that you don't even know.
So, it is important to figure out who
has the authority to sign your programs;
then you need to decide what kind
of digital identity you want to use.
I told you, you have a choice; you can buy one from
a certificate authority or you can make your own
and there's good sides and bad sides on both sided of this;
so there's trade offs and I can't really go to much into,
you know, the general nature of cryptographic signatures
and all that because, you know, that's another 2 hours
but if you're a large company you'll probably
have folks who know about these things
and if you're a small company you can always start with
one you make yourself and then worry about it later.
Then you need to set up your signing process.
You know, you have your work flow; you've got your Xcode
build so you make files or whatever it is that you do
to build your programs and then typically after that you
package them up together in some way; you're mastering them,
is the big word, getting it ready to be shipped out, you
know, over the network, burn it on CDs, whatever you do
and in between there after you finish building and
before you start mastering, that's where you sign.
So basically you're add a signing step in there and
depending on how automatic you want to be about this;
we're talking about either adding a shell
script phase into your Xcode builds
or having something a little bit more official where
people sit down with a glass of wine and you know say,
"Yea, this ones good here, I'll sign it."
So set up the process and then test it.
Not much to test; you set up to sign; you do the signing;
you ship it to your friend who installs it and checks
out if it's okay; you make an update, you
ship it again and you see if it's still okay.
If you pass those 2 steps you're pretty much okay.
I talked about that one so let's
just say that it's your choice.
Apple doesn't tell you to go buy one;
Apple doesn't tell you not to go buy one;
we support both types of signing
identities with the same enthusiasm.
Apple itself we will not sell you or give you
signing identities; that's not our business;
there isn't really anything we're adding to that
game that other companies can do at least as good;
so don't look to us for giving you identities although,
you know, we can always try to give you advice.
This is what you do every time that you
build code that you really want to sign.
I highlighted the 2 steps, the signing one obviously that's
running code sign with the identity that you built yourself
or bought yourself; the first highlighted step is maybe
not totally obvious; anytime you sign code you are saying,
"I made this and I'm proud of it;" so you may want to
think a little bit about what hoops your code needs to jump
through before you put that stamp
on it that says we're proud of this.
I wouldn't advise you signing everything
that you build all the time.
You know, development builds, debug
builds, because if those get out
and they're signed your signature still says we're proud
of this even though it removes the user's hard drive.
So...put a little bit of thought in there.
You know, maybe you only want to sign your GM
releases; maybe you only want to sign your Betas;
maybe you only want to sign stuff that at least,
you know, one of you has lived on for a week.
It's your decision; I'm not telling
you what to do but think about it a bit
because it's worthwhile spending
a bit of time thinking about it.
The inquisitive ones among you will by now wonder,
"What the hell does this code signing thing do
to my program anyway and what is it going break?"
If your program is a Mach-O binary either directly or
because it's a bundle with the Mach-O binary in it,
most of the signing information will actually go right
in there; so we're going to modify your executable
by adding a section that contains a bunch of data in it.
That happens to be a section that nobody
accept the code signing system looks
at so your program will function the same, just you
know, understand that there's extra stuff in there.
If your code is not a (inaudible) binary, I told
you we do scripts and all kinds of other stuff
and then there really isn't any structured
way of sticking this directly into your files
so what we do instead is we stick it in an extended
attributes; so if you do make code that isn't a file do note
that we're adding extended attributes to your
executable file and don't use some installer
that doesn't understand what an extended attribute is
because it'll probably just leave
it behind...that's not good.
If you have a bundle then we will also add a file
or 2 to the contents directory of your bundle;
that's the resource directory; that's the list of all
of your resources and enough information to figure
out if they have changed; so don't be surprised
if there's a file in your bundle that wasn't there
when you built your program; if it's
called code resources, that's fine.
If you are really curious, the code sign
command has an option for "Show me all the files
that we added and modified when we signed this."
That'll just give you a list of files so you know what
it did to your code and there's one last note...most
of you won't have a problem with
this but I'll mention it anyway.
When some other program is trying to establish whether
your code that is running is valid or not it is going to go
and read the code signing information in your code, in your
bundle and your executable because it will need to in order
to figure out who signed this and what it looks like.
If you're installing your program in such a way that the
verifier can't read it he won' t be able to verify you;
so if you make your program not world readable then there
will be some users on the system who can't verify your code.
That's not a problem for things like the Keychain
system because the security daemon runs this route
and it can pretty much see no matter how much
you try to hide but as time passes on and as more
and more daemons start using code signing validation
to figure out whether to give you services a lot
of those don't run as route for security reasons, they
run as some harmless user that doesn't do anything else
and that harmless user that doesn't do anything
else needs to be able to read your code;
so my advice would be to make sure
that your code is world readable.
You don't get any extra security not being world
readable as far as your code is concerned anyway.
So just to make sure you don't get hassles and weird
bug reports of stuff that only happens to some people
out there; keep your code world readable.
What does this all mean about suffer updates you send out?
Not much actually if you do it right.
Again I told you; it doesn't matter how your
code gets there as long as what's actually there
on the disk on the user system is what you signed.
So if you make a new version of your
program, build your new program,
sign it and then ship that to the user system somehow;
obviously if you're sending out a drag install
and you know the idea is that the user just
replaces the program you don't have a problem;
if you're using the Apple installer or third party installer
for that matter it's not going to be a problem either;
it will just override the changed parts on the user system.
If you're using some kind of incremental updater where
you're carefully only shipping the parts that changed,
that's fine too; just make sure that
what you're comparing in the sense
of what has changed is the signed old
version of the signed new version.
Signature obviously will change so
you're shipping the new signature;
you'll end up with your new program
on the disk, everything will be fine.
The last entry again, this is sort
of a geeks kind of notice;
if you replace your main executable
during an update you should be doing it
by replacing the file, not by overriding it.
This isn't really...if you're doing
drag installs that'll just be fine;
if you're using the Apple installer you'll
be just fine because it does the right thing;
if you're using a third party installer you may want
to give those folks a call and ask them what they do.
The problem potentially is that if that program is running
at the time you are updating it the system, the kernel,
may have the old verification information on
that file attached as information in the kernel
and if you are overriding the file instead of replacing
it, it may still have it when you're done with the updates;
so you may end applying the old verification
information to the new file and that, you know,
is not good; just a little implementation note here.
So what do you sign?
Well you want to sign all of your code; that obviously
means you're going to sign your beautiful application
or your nifty tool; if you have a helper tool or a
helper application inside of your application, you know,
one of those things that the security folks told you
to do because on the little tool does the root things;
if you have helpers you need to sign the helpers
separately; so that means running code sign more than once;
once for the bundle itself, once
for the helper inside of the bundle.
You can sign frameworks and libraries and plug ins
at this point; it works; it's probably a good idea.
Leopard comes out as a GM will not actually
verify libraries and frameworks and plug ins
but doing so if your product is one
of those or includes one of those,
gives you a leg up because eventually
Leopard will start verifying those
and then if you're already doing it you're fine and if
you're not then you have another deadline to worry about.
So if it's not too much of a problem
for you just sign those now.
Anything that is meant to change on the
users system shouldn't be code signed;
now that includes obviously documents that your application
makes but it also includes things like preference
and configuration data that the user is meant to change.
Those things are not code and while
the code sign command will sign just
about anything it's not meaningful; so don't do that.
>>So how do you test all of this?
Well the code sign command is the
Swiss army knife of code signing.
It can sign but it can also verify; it
can display the contents of a signature;
it can tell you about hosting chains; it
can do almost anything you want to know.
So read the man page and knock yourself
out; once you follow your signing process,
you're mastering process you can just hand run code
sign dash V with your path and it will tell you
if you accidentally broke the signature because you
did something to your program after you signed it.
If you don't just want to play around with the command
line tool you can instead use one of the system facilities
that actually uses code signing to give you access to it.
Parental controls is the obvious one because parental
controls will simply not let you launch a program unless
you've approved it and it's code signature is intact; so
make yourself a user account, an administrative account,
say you want parental controls on it, approve
the use of your program and then launch it.
If your code signature is somehow damaged parental
controls will not let you; so that's an easy test.
Obviously if you're making Keychain calls you can
just look for the dialogs and see if you get one
of those nasty worded dialogs about how the identity of
your program has been modified; that would be a bad sign.
( Pause )
I made a small list of things that we at Apple ran into
as we started wrapping this up and I figured I'd tell you
so you don't have to run into it yourself.
Xcode makes it really easy to stuff things
into the resources directory of a bundle;
so easy that people have gotten into the habit of putting
things there that really shouldn't necessarily be there.
If you find that you have helper tools and
helper applications that you are shipping
in the resources directory of the main application,
put the elsewhere, they don't belong there.
There's perfectly nice places for them,
the contents directory is one of them,
the contents Mac OS directory is another; code
signing really doesn't care where as long as it's not
in the resources directory because everything in
the resources directory is suppose to be a resource
and that means that if it changes for any reason,
like for example you're issuing a software update
for your helper then the main bundle will
look invalid and you don't want to go there.
Localizations are contents of your resources;
localizations are resources so make sure that all
of your localizations are in before you sign
because the signature will actually lock
down what localizations you have and if you
add a localization later it will not be part
of the signature data and it will look invalid.
If you farm out localization to some third party
then you pretty much have to get the result back,
stick it into your bundle and then sign it.
There's nothing wrong with re-signing your application.
You'll sign it once with just English and then sign it
again with all kinds of other languages in it but you know,
don't ship it before you're done with that.
If your idea of installing your product is having multiple
installation packages...there's nothing intrinsically wrong
with that as long as you're actually installing them all.
If you're offering the user the option to install some
of your product but not some other part of your product
and the user actually ends up doing that, then...if
you actually end up with a half installed product
on the users hard drive it will probably be violating
the signature because the signature is based on,
"I know what's here and that file is missing here."
There is one important special case that
code signing deals with automatically.
It's alright to strip language resources; so
if you build you program with English, French,
and German and then you yank the French out after
signing that's okay because well code signing knows
that people strip language resources all the time.
That is strictly about stripping them out; adding them
in after the fact is still a violation of the signature.
There are people who make installers whose post
install script does unpleasant things to the program
that just got installed like editing
the info P list; don't do that;
that's a 100 percent dis-qualifier;
your signature will blown immediately.
There's also people who still think that inside of
the bundle is a really great way to store things
like preferences; that has never been a good idea and
we've been telling you for about 5 years not to do that
but now it will actually hurt you; so if you're still
doing that now is an excellent time to stop doing that;
preferences belong into the library
preferences, not into your bundle.
Well, if you write self modifying code, I mean the kind
that actually modifies the executable
on disk, I feel sorry for you.
( Laughter )
And here's a few questions that I've gotten more than 3
times so I'll answer them before we go to real questions.
No, Apple does not decide whether your code is any
good or not, that is not what code signing is about;
so if you're used to something called code signing
or something similar on other operating systems
that shall remain nameless this is not like that.
This is not about Apple approving your
codes; this is not about Apple saying
that your code is not good unless you
paid for us to sign it; nothing like that.
Code signing is about a relationship
that you have with the user.
You promise that this is really your code,
the user says, "Okay, I'll believe you."
That's what this is about.
Obviously when we're talking about code that
Apple wrote Apple plays the role of the developer
and you know Apple says, "We make this and we're proud
of that" but your code is your code and we're just here
to help facilitate your interaction with the user.
Mac OS X will run your program just fine if it's unsigned;
there's nothing in the kernel that says that code has
to be signed to be run as you all have probably have
noticed because you have Betas or early releases
and your programs didn't mysteriously suddenly
die because you haven't signed them yet.
As a matter of fact, your program can live a
full life without ever noticing anything bad
about not being signed unless it calls a system
facility that is interested in code identity
like the Keychain system or parental
controls or developer access like task
for (inaudible) or the firewall, you saw all this.
So the system itself will run your code just
fine and if you lose your identity halfway
through because your code does something
weird it will still not get killed unless
that kill flag is on that I told you about.
( Pause )
The third one, well, I got that twice...you know, what
"You're telling me I have to go to one of those CAs
and buy myself a certificate, why
do you make me spend my money?"
We don't; we have this free tool called a certificate
assistant; it's included with your version of Mac OS X
which isn't quite free; you can make your own certificates,
your own signing identities and they are just as good
for the most part as the ones made
by Verisign or Thawte or a long list
of other companies I've been told not to neglect.
So the choice is yours; we're not forcing you to spend
any money on these certificates although if you want to,
if you think it's a good idea go right ahead.
We're not telling you not to spend
your money on those companies either.
If you ship codes that suppose to run both
on Tiger and Leopard, that's just fine.
Tiger has no idea what a code signature is and it
will happily ignore all of this stuff and run it
like you'd expect it to run it; the only constraint is
that in order to actually sign code the signing step has
to be done on Leopard because Tiger
doesn't know how to sign code either.
So, you know, if you want to ship a program that runs on
both systems the easiest way is to build it on Leopard,
use the Tiger SDK and sign it, works fine.
Code signing is a really big feature and it's not done
in Leopard but we've concentrated on the infrastructure,
we've concentrated on getting the big
pieces in but there is a lot of work left
for the next big cat, whatever we end up calling it.
We are definitely going to...automatically check more
and more of the pieces of your code like resources,
like libraries, like plug-ins so in Leopard, as I told you,
libraries aren't automatically checked even if you sign them
but that will just get added on the way, I can't
tell you when but that will definitely go in.
We're definitely going to add a lot more code host,
probably a lot of script interpreters, you know,
little things like the widget runner; widgets
are not supported in Leopard because they're kind
of complicated little beasties and we're also going
to, well, support more interesting code types;
kernel extension we actually ended up supporting
in Leopard but there's other pieces of code
that have their own interesting
features and we are definitely thinking
about making the various APIs officially, publically
available; if you have a particular preference as to
which ones you want first let us know, loudly, often.
There's also some new system features that could really,
God I can't say I use this word, leverage code signing;
one obvious one that pretty much everybody
comes up with after they hear about this is
"Does this mean you can just run over the hard drive
and find all the code and see if it's still okay?"
Yea, that would be a cool facility so
we're definitely thinking about doing that.
Another obvious application is if your code, if your
application is loading plug-ins wouldn't it be nice
if the user could say, "These are the kinds
of plug-ins I'm okay with you loading"
and the code signing requirement machinery
is the perfect tool for expressing that.
And there's outfits, both parts of Apple and
third parties whose rather lucrative business is
to ship specialized versions of Mac OS X, you know,
either by adding stuff or by pre-configuring it
and their customers tend to have a strong
interest in making sure that what they get,
what they end up with on their hard drive is really
what that pre-configuration service wanted them to have.
Well code signing can do that; it's
basically born for doing that kind of thing.
So that's also something that we're
definitely looking into adding.
Here is the where else to get information; Craig Keithley is
the technology evangelist of security technology evangelist
so he wants you all to have his e-mail address.
The man page for code sign is really pretty large and pretty
complete so please do read it even those of you who don't
like man pages because there is a lot of information in
there that you won't find anywhere else at this point.
There is a preliminary code signing guide in the reference
library that's on your Beta; that's not on the web site
yet because, you know, it's not a
released feature but if you use Xcode
to read the preliminary documentation there
it is, just look for code signing...and
if you're ever wondering exactly what
the requirements are placed on, you know,
a code signing identity RFC 2459 describes theY
extended key user extension called code signings and you
or the geekish friends of yours can figure
out whether a particular signing identity
will work for code signing or not.
Summary; they told me to have a summary.
It's here.
Really; there's not evading it;
sign your applications, really.
Your users will be happy particularly if you're using key
chains because a lot of these annoying dialogs used to be,
"Well the system really doesn't quite know
what's going on so let's ask the user"
and now the system does know what's going
on and it doesn't have to ask the user.
I mean it's a win for everybody around, if
you sign your code, which you will, right.